%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
% NIH Grant Proposal for the Specific Aims and Research Plan Sections
% LaTeX Template
% Version 1.0 (21/10/13)
%
% This template has been downloaded from:
% http://www.LaTeXTemplates.com
%
% Original author:
% Erick Tatro (erickttr@gmail.com) with modifications by:
% Vel (vel@latextemplates.com)
%
% Adapted from:
% J. Hrabe (http://www.magalien.com/public/nih_grants_in_latex.html)
%
% License:
% CC BY-NC-SA 3.0 (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/)
%
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

%----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
%	PACKAGES AND OTHER DOCUMENT CONFIGURATIONS
%----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\PassOptionsToPackage{unicode=true}{hyperref} % options for packages loaded elsewhere
\PassOptionsToPackage{hyphens}{url}
\PassOptionsToPackage{dvipsnames,svgnames*,x11names*}{xcolor}
%
%% DRS packages to load based on NIH.
\documentclass[11pt,notitlepage]{article}

% \usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\linespread{1.15} % A little extra line spread is better for the Palatino font
\usepackage{amsfonts, amsmath, amsthm, amssymb} % For math fonts, symbols and environments
\usepackage{graphicx} % Required for including images
\usepackage{booktabs} % Top and bottom rules for table
\usepackage{wrapfig} % Allows in-line images
\usepackage{setspace}
\usepackage[labelfont=bf,font=small]{caption} % Make figure numbering in captions bold
\captionsetup{belowskip=-4pt,aboveskip=4pt}
\usepackage[top=0.5in,bottom=0.5in,left=0.5in,right=0.5in,includeheadfoot]{geometry} % Reduce the size of the margin
\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage[greek,english]{babel}
% For switching to xelatex if unicode detected...
 \usepackage[no-math]{fontspec}
 \setmainfont{Helvetica}
 %\usepackage{mathspec}
 %\setmathfont(Digits,Latin)[Uppercase=Italic,Lowercase=Italic]{Helvetica}
 %\setmathfont(Greek)[Uppercase=Regular,Lowercase=Regular]{Helvetica}
 
\usepackage{fancyhdr}
\renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}
\pagestyle{fancy}
%\setlength{\headheight}{15.2pt}


 \usepackage[small,compact]{titlesec}
 \titlespacing{\title}{-2in}{0ex}{-3in}
 \titlespacing{\section}{0pt}{\parskip}{-\parskip}
 \titlespacing{\subsection}{0pt}{-\parskip}{-\parskip}
 \titlespacing{\subsubsection}{0pt}{0pt}{-\parskip}
 \titleformat{\section}%
  [hang]% <shape>
  {\normalfont\bfseries}% <format>
  {}% <label>
  {0pt}% <sep>
  {}% <before code>

\renewcommand{\thesection}{}
\renewcommand{\thesubsection}{\arabic{subsection}}

\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\usepackage{fixltx2e} % provides \textsubscript
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
  \usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
  \usepackage{textcomp} % provides euro and other symbols
\else % if luatex or xelatex
%%  \usepackage{unicode-math}
%  \defaultfontfeatures{Ligatures=TeX,Scale=MatchLowercase}
    \setmainfont[]{Helvetica}
    \setsansfont[]{Helvetica}
%\fi
% use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
% use microtype if available
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{%
\usepackage[]{microtype}
\UseMicrotypeSet[protrusion]{basicmath} % disable protrusion for tt fonts
}{}
\IfFileExists{parskip.sty}{%
\usepackage{parskip}
}{% else
\setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
\setlength{\parskip}{6pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}
}
\usepackage{xcolor}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\hypersetup{
            pdftitle={Membranes, Motors, and Molecular Modeling},
            pdfauthor={David R. Slochower},
            colorlinks=true,
            linkcolor=Maroon,
            citecolor=Blue,
            urlcolor=Blue,
            breaklinks=true}
\urlstyle{same}  % don't use monospace font for urls
\usepackage{graphicx,grffile}
\makeatletter
\def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth\else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
\def\maxheight{\ifdim\Gin@nat@height>\textheight\textheight\else\Gin@nat@height\fi}
\makeatother
% Scale images if necessary, so that they will not overflow the page
% margins by default, and it is still possible to overwrite the defaults
% using explicit options in \includegraphics[width, height, ...]{}
\setkeys{Gin}{width=\maxwidth,height=\maxheight,keepaspectratio}
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em}  % prevent overfull lines
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{5}
% Redefines (sub)paragraphs to behave more like sections
\ifx\paragraph\undefined\else
\let\oldparagraph\paragraph
\renewcommand{\paragraph}[1]{\oldparagraph{#1}\mbox{}}
\fi
\ifx\subparagraph\undefined\else
\let\oldsubparagraph\subparagraph
\renewcommand{\subparagraph}[1]{\oldsubparagraph{#1}\mbox{}}
\fi

% set default figure placement to htbp
\makeatletter
\def\fps@figure{htbp}
\makeatother


%DRS
\title{\large \vspace{-0.75in} \textbf{Membranes, Motors, and Molecular Modeling} \vspace{-1in} }
\fancypagestyle{title}{%
  \setlength{\headheight}{22pt}%
  \fancyhf{}% No header/footer
  \renewcommand{\headrulewidth}{0pt}% No header rule
  \renewcommand{\footrulewidth}{0pt}% No footer rule
  \fancyfoot[C]{\thepage}% Page number in Centre of footer
  \fancyhead[L]{David R.~Slochower}
  \fancyhead[R]{Research Plan}
}%
 \lhead{David R.~Slochower}
 \rhead{Research Plan}

% \pagestyle{empty} % Remove page numbers

\date{}

\begin{document}
% DRS
\lhead{David R.~Slochower}

\maketitle
%DRS
\thispagestyle{title}


The interface between physics and biology is an active, growing area of
science with many opportunities and unanswered questions. I plan to
focus on three areas that bridge theory, modeling, and simulations. My
research program will investigate the physical principles that underlie
biological and chemical phenomena, providing new insight into the
complex behavior of cell membranes and the operation and design of
molecular motors. In parallel, I will develop advanced simulation
technologies to compute binding free energies and improve force fields,
continuing my commitment to open source software and open access
science.

\textcolor{blue}{\textbf{Insert university-specific paragraph here.}}

\hypertarget{use-simulations-to-understand-lipid-dynamics-in-cell-membranes}{%
\subsection{Use simulations to understand lipid dynamics in cell
membranes}\label{use-simulations-to-understand-lipid-dynamics-in-cell-membranes}}

\emph{The goal of this aim is to characterize lipid-lipid interactions
and the physical mechanisms that drive and stabilize lateral segregation
of lipid species.}

The primary function of a membrane is to separate what is outside from
what is inside, yet cell membranes are extremely dynamic: they act as
scaffolds for the generation of second messengers, as the attachment
point for the cytoskeleton, and form highly curved geometries during
vesicle fusion and fission, among myriad other functions. Mammalian
plasma membranes are a rich mixture of hundreds of types of
phospholipids intermingled with other types of lipids, sterols, and
proteins. Continuum models have shed light on membrane topology and
geometry, but they are not well suited to capture the intracacies of
lipid-lipid
interactions\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-w5pYOl69}{1}}, and
until recently\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-1Dvbhukpz}{2}},
most simulations have incorporated only a few lipid types,
notwithstanding the tremendous diversity present in cell membranes.


\begin{wrapfloat}{figure}{R}{2.5in}
\centering
\includegraphics{content/images/membrane-vmd.png}
\caption{An example of a curved membrane with many different lipid
species, colored separately, representative of the systems I will
simulate.}
\label{fig:membrane-setup}
\end{wrapfloat}

Despite advances in super-resolution microscopy, such as
PALM\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-mNNsAL8U}{3}} and
STORM\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-12fkuxySq}{4}}, \emph{in
vivo} characterization of membrane heterogeneity remains challenging due
to the high spatiotemporal resolution required to study fluctuating
nanoscale assemblies of lipids and proteins in living cells and the need
to chemically modify the lipids or bind them to ligands in order to
visualize them or detect their motions and conformations by
spectroscopy. However, a variety of indirect experimental techniques,
often using fluorescently labeled lipid analogs, have characterized the
existence of sub-micron sized domains in living cells and plasma
membrane
extracts\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-GGtK2c0N}{5}--\protect\hyperlink{ref-aiu6Tmil}{9}}.
Even in the absence of proteins or chemical modifications, \emph{in
vitro} assays in the Janmey group have demonstrated clusters of
negatively charged phospholipids of on the order of 50 nm after the
addition of as little as 1 Î¼M
Ca\textsuperscript{2+}\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-LhOwGz4k}{10}}.

My approach is to understand what conditions promote cluster formation
and how the behavior of lipids in clusters differs from bulk. I will
initially focus on delineating the nucleation of cation-induced clusters
of anionic phospholipids. This work will involve extending the methods I
developed to investigate single molecule QM/MM and all-atom nanoscale
simulations. In those simulations, I found that Ca\textsuperscript{2+}
can act as ``molecular glue,'' forming aggregates of three lipids that
remain together for at least 100 ns, much longer than other ion-lipid
bond lifetimes. Extending beyond the all-atom simulations, I will use
the \href{https://github.com/biophyscode}{methods} we created to
construct and equilibrate multi-component membrane systems to build
models containing rich mixtures of phospholipids (Figure
\ref{fig:membrane-setup}), going past typical two or three-component
systems that are frequently used.

The finite and well-defined size of the experimentally-characterized
domains suggests there is a balance between the mutual electrostatic and
steric repulsion of negatively charged lipids and attraction mediated by
counterions. I will monitor the extent of phase separation and demixing
in simulations containing combinations of physiological divalent and
monovalent ions with varying fractions of charged and uncharged lipids.
The calculated diffusion coefficient inside the clusters can be compared
with values obtained using fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS)
and spot variant
FCS\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-oBaB5Z87}{7}}. Simple,
physical models based primarily on
electrostatics\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-10CqL9t0a}{11}}
predict continual growth of clusters in the presence of excess
counterions, yet \emph{in vivo} clusters plateau at a stable size.
Taking advantage of multiscale techniques, including all-atom and
coarse-grained simulations using GPU-accelerated molecular dynamics, I
will be able to study the growth and merging of clusters on the
biologically-relevant microsecond to millisecond timescale. The size and
shape of the simulated clusters will be contrasted with those seen with
AFM imaging and electron
microscopy\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-LhOwGz4k}{10}}.

Experiments pulling thin membrane tethers have shown that
phase-separated phospholipid domains form precisely at the junction of
highly curved
regions\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-XIltXoGI}{12}}, implying
a relationship between membrane morphology and lipid sorting. Free
energy methods, such as those detailed in the
\protect\hyperlink{build-advanced-technologies-to-perform-free-energy-calculations-for-drug-design}{third
aim} of this proposal, can be impose a given curvature on a region and
measure the energy required to do so. The bending modulus and mean
curvature of simulated clusters will be compared with data from pipette
aspiration of membrane
tubules\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-oBaB5Z87}{7},\protect\hyperlink{ref-aiu6Tmil}{9},\protect\hyperlink{ref-XIltXoGI}{12}},
and the order parameter of lipids inside the cluster can be contrasted
with complementary non-fluorescent methods, such as EPR, NMR, and
neutron scattering.


\begin{wrapfloat}{figure}{L}{2in}
\centering
\includegraphics{content/images/stereospecific.png}
\caption{An illustration of stereospecific recognition of phospholipids
by proteins.}
\label{fig:stereospecific}
\end{wrapfloat}

In the second phase of this project, I will study whether being in a
cluster alters the ability of certain lipids to perform their biological
roles. Many of the lipids implicated in cluster formation, such as
PtdIns(4,5)\emph{P}\textsubscript{2}, have been shown to bind hundreds
of proteins\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-uyKE7bWV}{13}}, and
several integral membrane proteins have been shown to partition into
lipid raft-like
domains\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-2TfZ4zWV}{14}}. In some
cases, PtdIns(4,5)\emph{P}\textsubscript{2} binds protein pockets in a
highly stereospecific manner (e.g., PtdIns(4,5)\emph{P}\textsubscript{2}
may bind tightly but the closely related isomers
PtdIns(3,4)\emph{P}\textsubscript{2} and
PtdIns(3,5)\emph{P}\textsubscript{2} may not bind at all) requiring a
fully extended and accessible head group (Figure
\ref{fig:stereospecific}). In order to evaluate the biological
consequences of clustering, I will run simulations containing proteins
that bind through either non-specific, electrostatic attraction (e.g.,
N-WASP and gelsolin) or through tight coordination (e.g., the PH domain
of PLCÎ´). Whether these proteins bind ``free'' lipid molecules as well
as they bind clustered ones will be tested using enhanced sampling
methods.

I expect the outcome of studying lipid sorting and segregation to be
especially helpful for understanding how the accumulation of membrane
comopnents is coupled to the many dynamic biological roles of the plasma
membrane. Furthermore, I anticipate the results in the second phase
could provide quantitative insights for pore-formation in cell membranes
by toxins and cationic surfactants, the activation of integral ion
channels and GPCRs by certain lipids, and the energetics of membrane
fusion, fission and other buckling geometries.

\hypertarget{develop-design-principles-for-synthetic-molecular-motors}{%
\subsection{Develop design principles for synthetic molecular
motors}\label{develop-design-principles-for-synthetic-molecular-motors}}

\emph{The proposed research will investigate current molecular motors
and suggest new scaffolds for future nanomachines.}


\begin{wrapfloat}{figure}{L}{2in}
\centering
\includegraphics{content/images/motor.png}
\caption{The two degrees of freedom in a synthetic molecular motor.}
\label{fig:motor-diagram}
\end{wrapfloat}

As demonstrated by Richard Feynman in a lecture on Brownian ratchets,
the challenge of designing molecular motors is not how to create
movement, but how to control the directionality of the omnipresent --
and random -- motion on the molecular
scale\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-10FsKpWBI}{15}}.
Non-protein synthetic molecules can be used to drive molecular motion
and have been employed as ``wheels'' on nano-scale
cars\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-OAnfwOYX}{16}},
trains\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-10MPrT2Vf}{17}},
worms\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-Tels98bO}{18}}, and
walkers\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-SfUEsk0e}{19}}, or in new
forms of responsive
materials\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-jCuccJLJ}{20}}. Yet,
the design of these machines has mostly consisted of trial and error and
it is not clear \emph{a priori} how chemically modifying their scaffolds
affects their
functioning\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-1H5r7SBir}{21}}.

One the most well-studied groups of molecular machines is the ``second
generation'' rotary motors from Ben Feringa and
colleagues\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-FwAqK1Dt}{22}}. These
overcrowded alkenes have two stable enantiomers, and adopt a helical
shape due to the steric strain around the central double bond (Figure
\ref{fig:motor-diagram}). Upon irradiation with light and the
application of heat, the two sets of conjugated rings rotate relative to
each other, with the central bond acting as an axle, and for simplicity,
one set of rings is designated the ``stator'' while the other set is
called the ``rotor.'' The directional motion of these molecules can be
analyzed in terms of two degrees of freedom: \(E\) to \(Z\) for the
isomerization of the double bond (analogous to \emph{cis} and
\emph{trans}) and \(P\) and \(M\) for the overall twist or helicity of
the molecule.

Considerable effort has been spent using advanced quantum mechanical
modeling to investigate the photochemical excitation and the dynamics of
the excited
state\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-so4s7d25}{23},\protect\hyperlink{ref-N6pRFM85}{24}}.
However, those insights have not been combined with the statistical
mechanics of the four ground states that comprise the 360\(^\circ\)
cycle of the motor (Figure \ref{fig:motors}, left side). My approach to
modeling involves adapting the nonequilibrium method I developed to
analyze directional motion in biological motors. The ground state
structures can be mapped onto discretized potential energy surfaces
(PES) for each isomerization state, that will be determined evaluating
the ground state energy of the motor as a function of the central
dihedral angle (Figure \ref{fig:motors}, right side). A Markov matrix
encodes the rates of moving between and along bins on each PES, and the
eigenvectors of this matrix characterize the steady state probability
flux that quantifies the extent of directional motion. From this, I can
determine the maximum speed and the maximum power that can be produced
by individual motors.

\begin{figure}
\centering
\includegraphics[width=1\textwidth,height=\textheight]{content/images/offset-barriers.png}
\caption{On the left, the four ground state conformations of a second
generation motor, adapted from Å tacko et
al\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-mKSNFvW7}{25}}. On the right,
the same four states placed on free energy profiles. The energy profiles
are periodic, with two cycles shown for either isomerization state. A
clone of the lower \(E\) energy surface is shown above, for clarity, to
demonstrate the progression from state 4 to state 1 requires
energy.\label{fig:motors}}
\end{figure}


\begin{wrapfloat}{figure}{R}{2in}
\centering
\includegraphics{content/images/Feringa-R-with-table.png}
\caption{Functional group additions can have a large effect on overall
rotation rates (redrawn
from\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-gimGEnwq}{26}}).}
\label{fig:feringa-r}
\end{wrapfloat}

This group of molecules is perhaps the most well-studied and
well-characterized class of motors. Over the past decade, there have
been many designs for rotary motors (reviewed by Kassem et
al.\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-1H5r7SBir}{21}}), and it has
become clear that the chemical constituents on both the rotor and the
stator affect motor
operation\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-MVPWALSk}{27}} (Figure
\ref{fig:feringa-r}). Reducing the bulkiness of the rotor can speed up
the overall rotation rate of the motor, but can also lead to the loss of
directionality\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-1F5wsgY82}{28}}.
It is also possible to alter the quantum yield of the photochemical step
by adding electron withdrawing or electron donating groups, polarizing
the molecule and lengthening the central double
bond\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-Ewc7FKL8}{29},\protect\hyperlink{ref-122TltEto}{30}}.
Yet, to date there is no underlying theory that can be leveraged to aid
the creation of new motors.

By systematically studying how the addition of chemical moieties affects
the \(E\) and \(Z\) PES of the motors, the relationship between the
chemical makeup of the rotor and stator and the strength of directional
motion will become clear. The understanding gained from this analysis
can be used to suggest new avenues in chemical space to create rotors
geared for a particular purpose. For example, in some instances it may
be desirable to have motors that rotate slowly but provide a tremendous
amount of torque (e.g., for using nanoscale motors to transport
macroscopic objects) while in other circumstances, it may be more
beneficial to have motors that rotate as quickly as possible (e.g., for
using motors to rapidly switch the surface properties of a particular
material). The results of this research will provide a fundamental
understanding of the principles underlying motor operation and open up
rational design for molecular rotors, pumps, transporters, and other
nanorobotics.

\hypertarget{build-advanced-technologies-to-perform-free-energy-calculations-for-drug-design}{%
\subsection{Build advanced technologies to perform free energy
calculations for drug
design}\label{build-advanced-technologies-to-perform-free-energy-calculations-for-drug-design}}

\emph{The proposed research in this aim will advance quantitative
methods for free energy calculations and incorporate binding
thermodynamics into a community-driven open access force field effort.}

Designing ligands that bind their target with high affinity and
specificity is one objective of small-molecule drug discovery, yet
hit-to-lead and lead-optimization can take upwards of three years owing
to the fact it is often necessary to synthesize hundreds or thousands of
new compounds. Drug discovery is very expensive and often fails. In
recent years, the pharmaceutical industry has begun to use absolute and
relative binding free energy calculations to help narrow the number of
compounds that must be
synthesized\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-1FiDpP1LR}{31},\protect\hyperlink{ref-1BwXH3GFO}{32}}.
In particular, the advent of computational calorimetry has enabled
quantitative and high-precision comparisons of binding free energies,
enthalpies, and entropies (by subtraction) with experimental values
determined by isothermal titration calorimetry or
NMR\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-1935a9V0d}{33}}. The root
mean squared error associated with such calculations is several
kcal/mol\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-LWd10vQy}{34}}, and even
a modest improvement of the prediction accuracy by 1 kcal/mol would lead
to a substantial decrease in the number of compounds that must be
manually synthesized and
tested\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-fC0t6Cy1}{35}}. The first
goal of this aim is to create better tools for estimating protein-ligand
binding constants.


\begin{wrapfloat}{figure}{L}{3in}
\centering
\includegraphics{content/images/APR-annotated.png}
\caption{An example host-guest system, \(\alpha\)-cyclodextrin with
cyclooctanol (unbound) showing the pulling coordinate along the \(z\)
axis.}
\label{fig:apr}
\end{wrapfloat}

Host-guest systems, nonconvalent complexes between a cavity-containing
host and a small molecule guest, have emerged as a powerful tool for
evaluating free energy algorithms. The attach-pull-release (APR) method
has consistently been ranked among the most accurate techniques for
predicting binding thermodynamics host-guest complexes in blind
challenges\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-BGsUYQln}{36},\protect\hyperlink{ref-GA1AFcUw}{37}}.
In APR, the reversible work of transferring the guest from the binding
site to solution, via a physical pathway, is computed using a series of
umbrella sampling windows (Figure \ref{fig:apr}). In the ``attach''
phase, restraints are connected to the guest (and optionally, to the
host for better conformational sampling) through a parameter
\(\lambda \in [0, 1]\) that controls the strength of the restraints.
During the ``pull'' phase, the equilibrium length of a distance
restraint joining the guest and host is increased until the guest is no
longer interacting with the host molecule. The ``release'' phase
reverses the work of attaching the restraints and also corrects the
concentration of the guest molecule to standard state. Simulating each
window and integrating over the partial derivative of the restraint
energy with respect to the restraint target, we can generate a potential
of mean force along the pulling coordinate that is used to compute the
binding free energy at standard state, \(\Delta G^\circ\).

I will independently continue the development of APR, and its Python
interface that I created -- called pAPRika -- by transforming it into a
generalized tool that is capable of computing free energies along any
physical pathway, using either AMBER or the open source OpenMM as
simulation packages. The core functionality of pAPRika is already being
used by research groups across the country and in at least one group in
China. An important milestone is adapting pAPRika for the efficient
computation of protein-ligand binding free energies. One advantage of
APR is a complete thermodynamic description of binding
(\(\Delta G^\circ\), \(\Delta H\), and \(-T \Delta S\)) that are all
absolute quantities for any protein-ligand pair instead of relative
\(\Delta G\) values along some chosen route of successive alchemical
modifications that would be obtained through free energy perturbation
methods. Due to the much larger size of proteins compared to host-guest
complexes, the increased fluctuations in potential energy make
\(\Delta G^\circ\) much harder to converge. A key step will be adding
the ability to automatically allocate resources, by calculating the
``return on investment'' (ROI) in each window that reports how extra
sampling in any \(\lambda\) state affects the standard error of the mean
binding affinity. Efficient APR calculations are well suited to predict
which ligands, among a series of potentially unrelated scaffolds and
structures, will bind most tightly to a protein target, such as during
virtual screening.

Even when results are well-converged, the accuracy of a free energy
simulations is necessarily limited by the accuracy of the force field it
uses. Most established small molecule force fields (e.g., the general
AMBER force field, GAFF) have been tuned using pure liquid state data,
such as the average density, enthalpy of vaporization, or the
self-diffusion coefficient. Over the past decade, it has become clear
that reproducing those properties well does not guarantee binding
thermodynamics at a level acceptable for guiding experiments. The open
force field group (OpenFF) is an academic collaboration that aims to
develop new force fields using open access methods, open source
software, and high-quality open data sets. One central difference with
the OpenFF group is the use of direct chemical perception to apply force
field parameters based on a molecular graph instead of atom
types\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-HlBr7NrU}{38}}, and the
desire to avoid over-fitting parameters by making Monte Carlo moves in
parameter space to find the fewest number of parameters required to
describe a set of
chemistries\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-13lTSBgHy}{39}}. The
first prototype force field from this effort was release in June 2018,
called SMIRNOFF99Frosst v0.1, based on a predecessor of GAFF.
SMIRNOFF99Frosst is able to perform as well as GAFF, and in some cases,
alleviate conformational problems caused by GAFF's atom types, in only
335 parameter lines compared to the 6794 lines in GAFF version 2.1.
Beyond this initial release, multiple generations of SMIRNOFF-based
force fields are planned, incorporating new forms of Lennard-Jones
interactions, the addition of atom polarizabilities, and Bayesian
estimates to quantify systematic errors in the force field.


\begin{wrapfloat}{figure}{R}{3in}
\centering
\includegraphics{content/images/SMIRNOFF-vs-GAFF-deltaG.png}
\caption{A comparison of binding free energies between SMIRNOFF99Frosst
and GAFF v1.7 for a series of cyclodextrin hosts and guests (unpublished
results). Points are colored according to guest functional group.}
\label{fig:smirnoff}
\end{wrapfloat}

As a member of the OpenFF consortium, I am responsible for benchmarking
new iterations of SMIRNOFF-family force fields using host-guest
thermodynamics computed by pAPRika. Figure \ref{fig:smirnoff} shows the
very first comparison of SMIRNOFF99Frosst v0.1 and GAFF v1.7 on
host-guest systems. GAFF v1.7 is known to overestimate binding
affinities by \textgreater{}1
kcal/mol\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-HVgz5rZq}{40}}, and it
appears that SMIRNOFF99Frosst reduces this tendency. To begin, I will
use the ``\href{https://escholarship.org/uc/item/9p37m6bq}{benchmark
set}'' of Mobley et
al.\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-12BD3oHp4}{41}}. There,
experimental data are available for rigid curcurbituril and highly
flexible cyclodextrin hosts with a variety of drug-like guest molecules.
When available, I plan to incorporate the binding data resulting from
selective derivatization of cyclodextrins designed to evaluate specific
functional group
interactions\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-13gqBX78S}{42}}.
pAPRika makes it easy to match the simulations to the experimental
conditions, including host and guest concentration, stoichiometry, ion
concentration, and buffer conditions.

To include pAPRika calculations in the creation of new force fields, I
will leverage the ForceBalance framework of Wang et
al.\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-JFWYe0Pp}{43}} ForceBalance
uses thermodynamic fluctuation formulas and reference data (e.g.,
\emph{ab initio} quantum mechanical calculations and experimentally
known molecular or bulk properties) to optimize an objective function,
such as the sum of squared differences between the calculated and
reference values. I will extend my collaboration with Dr.~Lee-Ping Wang
and integrate pAPRika binding free energy calculations into the
optimization loop of ForceBalance. Enthalpies are poorly correlated with
free energies, and thus, they represent a nearly independent set of data
to compare. I have experience working with the analytic derivatives of
the binding free energy with respect to Lennard-Jones
parameters\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-xRauI5mb}{44}}, and
using these derivatives to tune parameters was recently used by a
colleague to optimize the TIP3P water model for binding calculations by
post-processing existing MD trajectories for small parameter
perturbation\textsuperscript{\protect\hyperlink{ref-NeqIQDLp}{45}}.

Together, these methodological improvements will help create a
transparent and robust set of metrics to evaluate the performance of
candidate force fields on an equal footing. By incorporating host-guest
binding data, the degeneracy in parameter space will be broken, avoiding
force fields that agree excellently with experiment for liquid
properties and yet agree poorly on binding. I believe the ideas in this
aim could be turned into an NIH proposal by demonstrating the need to
systematically evaluate force field accuracy for protein-ligand binding,
perhaps the most important application of this work for human health.

\pagebreak
\setlength{\parskip}{0.1mm}

\hypertarget{references}{%
\section*{References}\label{references}}
\addcontentsline{toc}{section}{References}

\setstretch{1}

\hypertarget{refs}{}
\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-w5pYOl69}{}%
(1) Bassereau, P.; Jin, R.; Baumgart, T.; Deserno, M.; Dimova, R.;
Frolov, V. A.; Bashkirov, P. V.; GrubmÃ¼ller, H.; Jahn, R.; Risselada, H.
J.; et al. The 2018 Biomembrane Curvature and Remodeling Roadmap.
\emph{J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys.} \textbf{2018}, \emph{51} (34), 343001.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-1Dvbhukpz}{}%
(2) IngÃ³lfsson, H. I.; Melo, M. N.; van Eerden, F. J.; Arnarez, C.;
Lopez, C. A.; Wassenaar, T. A.; Periole, X.; de Vries, A. H.; Tieleman,
D. P.; Marrink, S. J. Lipid Organization of the Plasma Membrane.
\emph{J. Am. Chem. Soc.} \textbf{2014}, \emph{136} (41), 14554--14559.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-mNNsAL8U}{}%
(3) Betzig, E.; Patterson, G. H.; Sougrat, R.; Lindwasser, O. W.;
Olenych, S.; Bonifacino, J. S.; Davidson, M. W.; Lippincott-Schwartz,
J.; Hess, H. F. Imaging Intracellular Fluorescent Proteins at Nanometer
Resolution. \emph{Science} \textbf{2006}, \emph{313} (5793), 1642--1645.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-12fkuxySq}{}%
(4) Rust, M. J.; Bates, M.; Zhuang, X. Sub-Diffraction-Limit Imaging by
Stochastic Optical Reconstruction Microscopy (STORM). \emph{Nat Meth}
\textbf{2006}, \emph{3} (10), 793--796.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-GGtK2c0N}{}%
(5) Gidwani, A.; Holowka, D.; Baird, B. Fluorescence Anisotropy
Measurements of Lipid Order in Plasma Membranes and Lipid Rafts from
RBL-2H3 Mast Cellsâ . \emph{Biochemistry} \textbf{2001}, \emph{40} (41),
12422--12429.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-1Eg1Hzju1}{}%
(6) Swamy, M. J.; Ciani, L.; Ge, M.; Smith, A. K.; Holowka, D.; Baird,
B.; Freed, J. H. Coexisting Domains in the Plasma Membranes of Live
Cells Characterized by Spin-Label ESR Spectroscopy. \emph{Biophysical
Journal} \textbf{2006}, \emph{90} (12), 4452--4465.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-oBaB5Z87}{}%
(7) Levental, I.; Byfield, F.; Chowdhury, P.; Gai, F.; Baumgart, T.;
Janmey, P. Cholesterol-Dependent Phase Separation in Cell-Derived Giant
Plasma-Membrane Vesicles. \emph{Biochem. J.} \textbf{2009}, \emph{424}
(2), 163--167.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-BzP79Vj9}{}%
(8) Sengupta, P.; Holowka, D.; Baird, B. Fluorescence Resonance Energy
Transfer Between Lipid Probes Detects Nanoscopic Heterogeneity in the
Plasma Membrane of Live Cells. \emph{Biophysical Journal} \textbf{2007},
\emph{92} (10), 3564--3574.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-aiu6Tmil}{}%
(9) Baumgart, T.; Hammond, A. T.; Sengupta, P.; Hess, S. T.; Holowka, D.
A.; Baird, B. A.; Webb, W. W. Large-Scale Fluid/Fluid Phase Separation
of Proteins and Lipids in Giant Plasma Membrane Vesicles.
\emph{Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences} \textbf{2007},
\emph{104} (9), 3165--3170.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-LhOwGz4k}{}%
(10) Wang, Y.-H.; Collins, A.; Guo, L.; Smith-Dupont, K. B.; Gai, F.;
Svitkina, T.; Janmey, P. A. Divalent Cation-Induced Cluster Formation by
Polyphosphoinositides in Model Membranes. \emph{J. Am. Chem. Soc.}
\textbf{2012}, \emph{134} (7), 3387--3395.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-10CqL9t0a}{}%
(11) Ellenbroek, W.; Wang, Y.-H.; Christian, D.; Discher, D.; Janmey,
P.; Liu, A. Divalent Cation-Dependent Formation of Electrostatic PIP2
Clusters in Lipid Monolayers. \emph{Biophysical Journal} \textbf{2011},
\emph{101} (9), 2178--2184.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-XIltXoGI}{}%
(12) Heinrich, M.; Tian, A.; Esposito, C.; Baumgart, T. Dynamic Sorting
of Lipids and Proteins in Membrane Tubes with a Moving Phase Boundary.
\emph{Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences} \textbf{2010},
\emph{107} (16), 7208--7213.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-uyKE7bWV}{}%
(13) Lemmon, M. A. Membrane Recognition by Phospholipid-Binding Domains.
\emph{Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol} \textbf{2008}, \emph{9} (2), 99--111.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-2TfZ4zWV}{}%
(14) Raghunathan, K.; Kenworthy, A. K. Dynamic Pattern Generation in
Cell Membranes: Current Insights into Membrane Organization.
\emph{Biochimica et Biophysica Acta (BBA) - Biomembranes} \textbf{2018},
\emph{1860} (10), 2018--2031.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-10FsKpWBI}{}%
(15) Browne, W. R.; Feringa, B. L. Making Molecular Machines Work.
\emph{Nature Nanotech} \textbf{2006}, \emph{1} (1), 25--35.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-OAnfwOYX}{}%
(16) Kudernac, T.; Ruangsupapichat, N.; Parschau, M.; MaciÃ¡, B.;
Katsonis, N.; Harutyunyan, S. R.; Ernst, K.-H.; Feringa, B. L.
Electrically Driven Directional Motion of a Four-Wheeled Molecule on a
Metal Surface. \emph{Nature} \textbf{2011}, \emph{479} (7372), 208--211.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-10MPrT2Vf}{}%
(17) Sasaki, T.; Guerrero, J. M.; Leonard, A. D.; Tour, J. M. Nanotrains
and Self-Assembled Two-Dimensional Arrays Built from Carboranes Linked
by Hydrogen Bonding of Dipyridones. \emph{Nano Res.} \textbf{2008},
\emph{1} (5), 412--419.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-Tels98bO}{}%
(18) Sasaki, T.; Tour, J. M. Synthesis of a New Photoactive
Nanovehicle:~ A Nanoworm. \emph{Org. Lett.} \textbf{2008}, \emph{10}
(5), 897--900.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-SfUEsk0e}{}%
(19) von Delius, M.; Leigh, D. A. Walking Molecules. \emph{Chem. Soc.
Rev.} \textbf{2011}, \emph{40} (7), 3656.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-jCuccJLJ}{}%
(20) Lucas, L. N.; van Esch, J.; Feringa, B. L.; Kellogg, R. M.
Photocontrolled Self-Assembly of Molecular Switches. \emph{Chem.
Commun.} \textbf{2001}, No. 8, 759--760.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-1H5r7SBir}{}%
(21) Kassem, S.; van Leeuwen, T.; Lubbe, A. S.; Wilson, M. R.; Feringa,
B. L.; Leigh, D. A. Artificial Molecular Motors. \emph{Chem. Soc. Rev.}
\textbf{2017}, \emph{46} (9), 2592--2621.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-FwAqK1Dt}{}%
(22) Klok, M.; Walko, M.; Geertsema, E.; Ruangsupapichat, N.;
Kistemaker, J.; Meetsma, A.; Feringa, B. New Mechanistic Insight in the
Thermal Helix Inversion of Second-Generation Molecular Motors.
\emph{Chem. Eur. J.} \textbf{2008}, \emph{14} (35), 11183--11193.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-so4s7d25}{}%
(23) Kazaryan, A.; Lan, Z.; SchaÌfer, L. V.; Thiel, W.; Filatov, M.
Surface Hopping Excited-State Dynamics Study of the Photoisomerization
of a Light-Driven Fluorene Molecular Rotary Motor. \emph{J. Chem. Theory
Comput.} \textbf{2011}, \emph{7} (7), 2189--2199.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-N6pRFM85}{}%
(24) Kazaryan, A.; Kistemaker, J. C. M.; SchaÌfer, L. V.; Browne, W. R.;
Feringa, B. L.; Filatov, M. Understanding the Dynamics Behind the
Photoisomerization of a Light-Driven Fluorene Molecular Rotary Motor.
\emph{J. Phys. Chem. A} \textbf{2010}, \emph{114} (15), 5058--5067.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-mKSNFvW7}{}%
(25) Å tacko, P.; Kistemaker, J. C. M.; van Leeuwen, T.; Chang, M.-C.;
Otten, E.; Feringa, B. L. Locked Synchronous Rotor Motion in a Molecular
Motor. \emph{Science} \textbf{2017}, \emph{356} (6341), 964--968.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-gimGEnwq}{}%
(26) Vicario, J.; Walko, M.; Meetsma, A.; Feringa, B. L. Fine Tuning of
the Rotary Motion by Structural Modification in Light-Driven
Unidirectional Molecular Motors. \emph{J. Am. Chem. Soc.} \textbf{2006},
\emph{128} (15), 5127--5135.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-MVPWALSk}{}%
(27) Bauer, J.; Hou, L.; Kistemaker, J. C. M.; Feringa, B. L. Tuning the
Rotation Rate of Light-Driven Molecular Motors. \emph{J. Org. Chem.}
\textbf{2014}, \emph{79} (10), 4446--4455.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-1F5wsgY82}{}%
(28) ter Wiel, M. K. J.; van Delden, R. A.; Meetsma, A.; Feringa, B. L.
Increased Speed of Rotation for the Smallest Light-Driven Molecular
Motor. \emph{J. Am. Chem. Soc.} \textbf{2003}, \emph{125} (49),
15076--15086.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-Ewc7FKL8}{}%
(29) Filatov, M.; Olivucci, M. Designing Conical Intersections for
Light-Driven Single Molecule Rotary Motors: From Precessional to Axial
Motion. \emph{J. Org. Chem.} \textbf{2014}, \emph{79} (8), 3587--3600.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-122TltEto}{}%
(30) Nikiforov, A.; Gamez, J. A.; Thiel, W.; Filatov, M. Computational
Design of a Family of Light-Driven Rotary Molecular Motors with Improved
Quantum Efficiency. \emph{J. Phys. Chem. Lett.} \textbf{2015}, \emph{7}
(1), 105--110.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-1FiDpP1LR}{}%
(31) van Vlijmen, H.; Desjarlais, R. L.; Mirzadegan, T. Computational
Chemistry at Janssen. \emph{J Comput Aided Mol Des} \textbf{2016},
\emph{31} (3), 267--273.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-1BwXH3GFO}{}%
(32) Christ, C. D.; Fox, T. Accuracy Assessment and Automation of Free
Energy Calculations for Drug Design. \emph{J. Chem. Inf. Model.}
\textbf{2013}, \emph{54} (1), 108--120.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-1935a9V0d}{}%
(33) Henriksen, N. M.; Fenley, A. T.; Gilson, M. K. Computational
Calorimetry: High-Precision Calculation of Host--Guest Binding
Thermodynamics. \emph{J. Chem. Theory Comput.} \textbf{2015}, \emph{11}
(9), 4377--4394.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-LWd10vQy}{}%
(34) Gaieb, Z.; Liu, S.; Gathiaka, S.; Chiu, M.; Yang, H.; Shao, C.;
Feher, V. A.; Walters, W. P.; Kuhn, B.; Rudolph, M. G.; et al. D3R Grand
Challenge 2: Blind Prediction of Protein--Ligand Poses, Affinity
Rankings, and Relative Binding Free Energies. \emph{J Comput Aided Mol
Des} \textbf{2017}, \emph{32} (1), 1--20.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-fC0t6Cy1}{}%
(35) Shirts, M. R.; Mobley, D. L.; Brown, S. P. Free-Energy Calculations
in Structure-Based Drug Design. In \emph{Drug Design: Structure- and
Ligand-Based Approaches}; Merz Jr., K. M., Ringe, D., Reynolds, C. H.,
Series Eds.; Cambridge University Press, 2010.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-BGsUYQln}{}%
(36) Yin, J.; Henriksen, N. M.; Slochower, D. R.; Shirts, M. R.; Chiu,
M. W.; Mobley, D. L.; Gilson, M. K. Overview of the SAMPL5 Host--Guest
Challenge: Are We Doing Better? \emph{J Comput Aided Mol Des}
\textbf{2016}, \emph{31} (1), 1--19.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-GA1AFcUw}{}%
(37) Muddana, H. S.; Fenley, A. T.; Mobley, D. L.; Gilson, M. K. The
SAMPL4 Host--Guest Blind Prediction Challenge: An Overview. \emph{J
Comput Aided Mol Des} \textbf{2014}, \emph{28} (4), 305--317.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-HlBr7NrU}{}%
(38) Mobley, D.; Bannan, C. C.; Rizzi, A.; Bayly, C. I.; Chodera, J. D.;
Lim, V. T.; Lim, N. M.; Beauchamp, K. A.; Shirts, M. R.; Gilson, M. K.;
et al. Open Force Field Consortium: Escaping Atom Types Using Direct
Chemical Perception with SMIRNOFF V0.1, 2018.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-13lTSBgHy}{}%
(39) Zanette, C.; Bannan, C. C.; Bayly, C. I.; Fass, J.; Gilson, M.;
Shirts, M. R.; Chodera, J.; Mobley, D. Toward Learned Chemical
Perception of Force Field Typing Rules, 2018.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-HVgz5rZq}{}%
(40) Henriksen, N. M.; Gilson, M. K. Evaluating Force Field Performance
in Thermodynamic Calculations of Cyclodextrin Host--Guest Binding: Water
Models, Partial Charges, and Host Force Field Parameters. \emph{J. Chem.
Theory Comput.} \textbf{2017}, \emph{13} (9), 4253--4269.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-12BD3oHp4}{}%
(41) Mobley, D. L.; Gilson, M. K. Predicting Binding Free Energies:
Frontiers and Benchmarks. \emph{Annu. Rev. Biophys.} \textbf{2017},
\emph{46} (1), 531--558.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-13gqBX78S}{}%
(42) Kellett, K.; Kantonen, S. A.; Duggan, B. M.; Gilson, M. K. Toward
Expanded Diversity of Host-Guest Interactions via Synthesis and
Characterization of Cyclodextrin Derivatives, 2018.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-JFWYe0Pp}{}%
(43) Wang, L.-P.; Martinez, T. J.; Pande, V. S. Building Force Fields:
An Automatic, Systematic, and Reproducible Approach. \emph{J. Phys.
Chem. Lett.} \textbf{2014}, \emph{5} (11), 1885--1891.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-xRauI5mb}{}%
(44) Yin, J.; Fenley, A. T.; Henriksen, N. M.; Gilson, M. K. Toward
Improved Force-Field Accuracy Through Sensitivity Analysis of Host-Guest
Binding Thermodynamics. \emph{J. Phys. Chem. B} \textbf{2015},
\emph{119} (32), 10145--10155.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-NeqIQDLp}{}%
(45) Yin, J.; Henriksen, N. M.; Muddana, H. S.; Gilson, M. K. Bind3P:
Optimization of a Water Model Based on Host--Guest Binding Data.
\emph{J. Chem. Theory Comput.} \textbf{2018}, \emph{14} (7), 3621--3632.

\end{document}