 In 1953 Stanley Miller mixed methane, ammonia, and hydrogen in glass tubes. 
 A flask with heated water and one with electrodes connected the tubes, and when a spark of electricity bolted across the electrodes, the apparatus produced amino acids, the building blocks of all proteins. 
 When I first heard about this experiment in high school, I was attracted to its simplicity and elegance. 
 Now, I recognize that it's explanatory power originates in the novelty of looking at a seemingly impenetrable question---the origin of life---from a new perspective. 
 I am looking for a research environment where disciplines are combined to tackle problems on the boundary of biological and medical science.

My research interests center on uncovering the physical principles that underlie biological and chemical phenomena. 
I try to create more accurate molecular simulations by improving physics-based force fields and combining new simulation procedures with nonequilibrium analytical tools.
I will extend my previous work on biological membranes to elucidate driving forces behind the formation of membrane domains featuring phosphoinositides.
I will also run simulations of synthetic molecular motors, such as those designed by Ben Feringa, to characterize their mechanical properties.
Finally, I will participate in a systematic overhaul of force field science, changing the way force fields are built and how they are distributed, by focusing on transparent and rigorous optimization criteria, in an open setting.
These investigations will provide a detailed accounting of the physical principles that are at work in biological systems.
My undergraduate degree in physics combined with my graduate work in biochemistry and biophysics, together with my postdoctoral training in computational chemistry, makes me well suited to this research plan.
Each aim of my detailed research plan focuses on a physical or chemical question at the heart of molecular motion.