# Summary of previous research

## Improving free energy calculations
Accurate binding thermodynamics calculations remain one of the central goals of biomolecular simulations. 
While in the Gilson group, I contributed to an overall evaluation of more than ten different methods, from research groups around the world, used to compute host-guest binding free energies and enthalpies [@doi:10.1007/s10822-016-9974-4]. 
As part of that work, I extended our own method (attach-pull-release [@doi:10.1007/s10822-016-9970-8]) by completely rewriting the code in Python and adding several advanced features enabling larger and more challenging systems to be used (this code is available on [GitHub](https://www.github.com/slochower/pAPRika)). 
More recently, I have also worked on assessing the efficiency and reproducibility of how different algorithms converge toward free energy estimates (forthcoming publication).

## The evolution of molecular motors
Biological motors are enzymes that use chemical energy to drive directional motion. 
Although motor proteins must have arisen through random mutation and natural selection, it is not clear how the evolutionary leap from non-motor enzymes to molecular motors could have occurred. 
I showed that any chiral molecule driven out of equilibrium should undergo cycles of conformational change [@doi:10.1016/j.bpj.2018.02.008]. 
This work was highlighted by [UCSD](http://ucsdhealthsciences.tumblr.com/post/173707350285/its-not-intelligent-design-so-how-did) and ["New and Notable"](https://www.cell.com/biophysj/fulltext/S0006-3495(18)30444-2) in Biophysical Journal.

## The design of new force fields
As part of the open force field consortium---a collaboration with Dr. David Mobley, Dr. John Chodera, Dr. Michael Shirts, Dr. Lee-Ping Wang, and Dr. Chris Bayly--- I participated in the effort to build new molecular mechanics force fields based on direct chemical perception instead of indirect, atom-type based approaches (forthcoming publication). 
I have also contributed to the design, coding, and implementation of a new force field format---SMIRKS Native Open Force Field (SMIRNOFF)---based on a hierarchical structure that supports customized combining rules, partial bond orders, polarizability, and other advanced features. 
The tools and data are open source and available on [GitHub](https://github.com/openforcefield).

## Simulations of complex membranes
Continuing the work that I started during graduate school at the University of Pennsylvania [@doi:10.1021/jp401414y; @doi:10.1016/j.cis.2014.01.016; @doi:10.1016/j.chemphyslip.2014.01.001; @doi:10.1039/C5CP00862J; @url:www.google.com], I'm interested in simulating increasingly complex, and thus more physiologically relevant, models of biological membranes. 
We recently reported (forthcoming publication) how the interplay between lipid species, cholesterol, counterions, and water near the membrane interface can lead to the formation of nano-scale lipid clusters. 
A natural next step is to understand the role proteins play in stabilizing these clusters, as discussed below.