# Detailed research plan

## How are highly enriched clusters of negatively charged phospholipids stabilized?

Phosphoinositides are a minor class of lipids located on the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane, found at about 0.5 mole percent of all phospholipids in mammalian cells (10-100 μM), that have an outsized biological role.
This class of lipids participates in myriad cell processes including attachment of the cytoskeleton, membrane fusion, vesiculation, and both activation and inhibition of enzymes [@doi:10.1038/nature05185].
Disruption in signaling pathways associated with the phosphoinositides have been implicated in several cancers as well as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease along with other neurodegenerative disorders [@tag:test; @tag:lin; @doi:10.1146/annurev.cellbio.17.1.615; @doi:10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-0653; @doi:10.1126/science.1135394; @doi:10.1038/nrc2842].
Among all phospholipids, PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ may be the most common regulatory lipid: hundreds of cytosolic proteins have been found to bind PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ in vitro [@doi:10.1038/nrm2328] including proteins that cause or sense membrane curvature [@doi:10.1146/annurev.biophys.31.082901.134259; @doi:10.1016/j.bpj.2016.11.1216].

PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ is one of the most highly charged molecules in the cell, carrying a net charge from -3 to -5 at physiological pH, owing to a phosphodinoester and two phosphomonoester groups [@doi:10.1021/bi9008616].
Despite their high charge, through the use of super-resolution microscopy, there is mounting evidence for nano-scale clusters of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ within cells. 
In neuronal cells, clusters of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ have been visualized using fluorescent phosphoinositide-binding domains and phosphoinositide-specific antibodies [@doi:10.1038/nature10545.; @doi:10.1038/nsmb.2570].
These clusters are circular, roughly 70--90 nm in diameter, and composed of greater than 80% PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~. 
A separate study found clusters of around 60 nm for PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~, and larger clusters for PtdIns(3,4,5)*P*~3~, in the plasma membrane [@doi:10.1242/bio.20122071]. 
Even in the absence of proteins, *in vitro* assays in the Janmey group have demonstrated PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ clusters of 40--50 nm, by AFM and TEM imaging, after the addition of as little as ~1  μM Ca^2+^[@doi:10.1021/ja208640t].
Another study using fluorescence self-quenching and Förster resonance energy transfer assays noted PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ self association at concentrations as low as 0.05 mole percent, with divalent and trivalent metal ions, in model membranes and liposomes [@doi:10.1016/j.bpj.2018.04.048].

- Our simulations to date have not only yielded an accurate characterization of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ (at the native protonation state and bound to different ions) in a physiologically relevant bilayer environment, but also several important structural and energetic metrics – head group angle, molecular area, solvation in the immediate vicinity of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~, and spatial ion distribution functions for the entire bilayer.
- However, I have yet to study clusters of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ and the interactions between PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ and proteins, two biologically-relevant components.

### Understand how divalent cations grow and stabilize clusters
The finite and well-defined size of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ clusters suggests there is a balance between the mutual electrostatic and steric repulsion of the negatively charged lipids and the attraction mediated by Ca^2+^.
A key piece of evidence is the observation from molecular dynamics simulations that a single Ca^2+^ ion is able to bring together groupings of up to three lipids and lead to changes in membrane packing (as detailed in a publication currently under review).
In simulations, we find that only Ca^2+^ has the ability to nucleate clusters; in experiments, clusters are detected only at higher concentrations of Mg^2+^ and not at all with the monovalent ions Na^+^ or K^+^ [@doi:10.1021/bi9007879]. 

Building upon an automated toolchain for constructing heterogeneous membrane compositions for molecular simulations [@tag:biophysgit; @tag:biophyscode], I will construct and run simulations of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ clusters.
As in my previous work, I will test several variables independently by varying the counterion species, counterion concentration, and presence or absence of proteins.

- What is the critical concentration for PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ to spontaneously form clusters?
- PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ preferentially partitions into the liquid disordered phase.
- As the concentration of Ca2+ in the aqueous phase increases, the gel phase domains increase in size and irregularity; the gel phase domains have excess charge density and repel each other with such energy that they are capable of forming a Wigner lattice (the lowest energy spatial configuration of negatively charged particles in a positive electrostatic potential such that the Coulombic interactions dominate the kinetic energy) [47]. 
- Do PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ clusters grow in size over the course of the simulation?
- What happens on the boundary of the cluster? Are certain lipids more likely than others? Where is cholesterol?
- That the clusters so far visualized in experiments are round suggests the domains are fluid, rather than crystalline.
- I am going to test the hypothesis that PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ clusters increase the height of the membrane, are more laterally stiff, and display curvature.
- What is the diffusion coefficient inside the cluster?
- Quantify the Gaussian curvature.

### Determine how the ability of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ to bind proteins changes inside a cluster
I am going to test the hypothesis that PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ clusters can form even in the absence of proteins, and that the clustered PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ has a greater affinity for many proteins.

- It is thought that the different physical properties inside clusters have significant biological effects.
- As many PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~-binding proteins interact through an unstructured polybasic stretch, their interactions with the membrane depend on its surface potential and are therefore sensitive to the local density of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~, which is the most highly charged lipid in the bilayer.
- To stereospecifically bind PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~, PH domains require a nearly extended form of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ (this can be seen in some crystal structures).
- Actin regulatory proteins bind PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ and are likely to respond to changes in PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ packing.
- PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ clustering is not reduced when actin nucleation is disrupted, suggesting the clusters precede the proteins.
- We will build smaller (40×40 nm^2^) bilayer patches with varying levels of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ concentration (including 0, 4, 10, and 30%) in the “inner” leaflet to study the effects of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ on the protein binding mechanism.
- By studying the binding of polybasic protein domains under varying concentrations, we will characterize the interactions governing the protein binding affinity, and report the molecular mechanism of the PIP2-density dependence of polybasic protein binding.
- Many of the results of this aim can be compared directly to *in vitro* experiments of PtdIns(4,5)*P*~2~ in model membranes and *in vivo* imaging studies along the lines of van den Bogaart.

- Diffusion is very slow.
- Induction of pores or local regions of high curvature.
- What is the Gaussian curvature?
- What is the modulus of elasticity?
- What is the equivalent radius of curvature?
- Match AFM or scattering experiments.
- Saffron-Delbruk model of diffusion.
- The results can be compared to AFM, IR, neutron scattering, or other biophysical experiments on membranes.
- As I reported previously, the angle between the head group and the surface of the membrane affects the lipid's ability to bind proteins.