## Can we build a truly open force field?
The advent of computational calorimetry in the past few years enables quantitative and high-precision comparisons of binding free energies, enthalpies, and entropies (by subtraction) with experimental values determined by isothermal titration calorimetry or NMR {Henriksen, 2015 #9}. Host-guest systems are noncovalent complexes between a cavity-like host molecule and a small molecule guest. These systems retain many of the same difficulties of protein-ligand systems while being computationally tractable and reaching convergence on a shorter time scale. In the attach-pull-release (APR) method, the thermodynamics of binding are computed from a series of umbrella sampling windows. In the “attach” phase, restraints are connected to the guest (and optionally, to the host for better conformational sampling) through increasing λ weights. In the “pull” phase, the equilibrium length of the restraints is increased until the guest is no longer interacting with the host molecule. The “release” phases reverses the work of attaching the restraints and also corrects the concentration of the guest molecule to standard state. Taken together, these data generate a potential of mean force along the pulling coordinate that can be integrated to determine the binding free energy.
### Incorporate host-guest binding data into force field development

- APR diagram with workflow.

We will also investigate end-state methods, such as interaction entropy

The partial derivatives can be used to linearly extrapolate.

Cyclodextrins only have three functional groups, but through selective syntehsis, we can test more.

$$
\text{ROI} = \frac{\partial (\partial G_\text{SEM})}{\partial (dU/d\lambda_\text{SEM})} \frac{\partial (dU/d\lambda_\text{SEM})}{\partial N_\text{frames}}
$$ {#eq:roi}

Equation @eq:roi is the return on investment.

### Integrate automated optimization techniques, such as ForceBalance, with host-guest binding data

- We need to rapidly and efficiently test force field parameters.
- ForceBalance is an existing tool that can be used for parameter refinement (and is already in the process of being integrated into the open force field group).
- We will allow ForceBalance to call pAPRika with candidate sets of parameters.
- Given that time will be limited for the APR calculations, we will improve the ability to detect convergence of simulations, dynamically running individual windows.
- The "return on investment" tells us how the standard error of the mean for the overall binding free energy changes as more frames are run in a particular window.
- Together, these methodological improvements will help create a transparent and robust metric for evaluating force field performance and help predict the performance of candidate force fields in drug development.