# Notes
<font color="red">
- Do we have to explain the nonequilibrium model completely?
Concerns

Too much from Mudong?
Too much from Niel and/or Mobley?
Introduction okay? Too mawkish?

I know there's something wrong the diagram, but I'm not sure what I want to show or how to fix it. I need to somehow show that the vertical axis is some "pseudo" energy -- the heights along $x$ axis are supposed to barriers, but the isomer states themselves don't increase in energy.

- Diffusion is very slow.
- Induction of pores or local regions of high curvature.
- What is the Gaussian curvature?
- What is the modulus of elasticity?
- What is the equivalent radius of curvature?
- Match AFM or scattering experiments.
- Saffron-Delbruk model of diffusion.

The results can be compared to AFM, IR, neutron scattering, or other biophysical experiments on membranes.
As I reported previously, the angle between the head group and the surface of the membrane affects the lipid's ability to bind proteins.

The thermodynamic and kinetic properties of molecular motors depend on the chemical substituents of the rotor and the stator.
Chemical modification of the two rings connected by a double bond affects the racemization barrier of several kcal/mol, by changing the interatomic distance between the rings and therefore, also increasing or decreasing the steric hindrance [@tag:overcrowding].
The rotation rate of molecular motors can vary from seconds to milliseconds [@doi:10.1021/ja8037245].
Gravity and inertia are irrelevant, but viscosity and Brownian motion are dominant.

AJDLFK;JASL;KDFJ;ASLFJL;KSADJFLJ
</font>